s# New frontend for ABS

## Installing dependencies

### BNFC

Description of BNF Converter (BNFC):

> The BNF Converter is a compiler construction tool generating a compiler front-end from a Labelled BNF grammar. 
> It is currently able to generate C, C++, C#, Haskell, Java, and OCaml, as well as XML representations.

To install:

1) Grab a recent binary for your platform from <http://bnfc.digitalgrammars.com/>
2) or if you have ghc and cabal, build&install bnfc with `cabal install BNFC`.

## Building the ABS frontend

The general rule is to build the frontend **specifically for the language** that you are using for your (backend) compiler.
To build the frontend, invoke bnfc for your compiler language:

~~~
cd src/
bnfc -m --language ABS.cf
~~~

### Building for Haskell

You need the `happy` parser and `alex` lexer. Install them with:

~~~
cabal install happy alex
~~~

Then run bnfc with:

~~~
cd src/
bnfc -m --haskell ABS.cf
~~~

Files generated:

- AbsABS.hs : holds the Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) datatype for the ABS language
- PrintABS.hs : module for pretty-printing ABS-AST code.
- LexABS.x : the lexer specification in Alex format.
- ParABS.y : the parser specification in Happy format.
- SkelABS.hs : helper file for TestABS.hs
- ErrM.hs : helper file used by other-generated files
- TestABS.hs: example program that parses and prints ABS source code from input.
- Makefile: a file to *automatically* build the lexer/parser and the test example

To generate *manually* the haskell lexer and parser:

~~~
happy -gca ParABS.y
alex -g LexABS.x
~~~
  
These commands generate the Haskell
source-code for the lexer (LexABS.hs) and parser (ParABS.hs).

You can then use the all of these `.hs` sources for your Haskell-based backend compiler.

### Building for Java

You need the java-cup-11b.jar parser and Jlex lexer .Install them with

cabal install cup Jlex

Then run bnfc with
cd src/
bnfc -m --java ABS.cf

Files generated:


- Absyn : holds the Abstract Syntax Tree (AST) datatype for the ABS language
- PrettyPrinter.java : module for pretty-printing ABS-AST code.
- Yylex : the lexer specification generated by the BNFC converter.
- ABS.cup : the parser specification in cup format.
- VisitSkel.java : helper file for Test.java
- AbstractVisitor.java : the BNFC-Generated Abstract Visitor file.
- Test.java: example program that parses and prints ABS source code from input.
- Makefile: a file to *automatically* build the lexer/parser and the test example

To generate manually the java lexer and parser.

java -cp ".:lib:lib/java-cup-11b.jar" ParABS.x
java -lex LexABS.y


These commands generate the java source code for lexer and parser

You can then use all of these .java sources for developing  Java-based backend compiler.


To check if the abs file parses through the java parser, use the below command:

cd gen/java
java -cp ".:lib:lib/java-cup-11b.jar" ABS.Test ../../test/While.abs

### (Optional) Generate documentation for any BNFC-language

You need to install `txt2tags` program for your distribution.

After you run bnfc (regardless of your backend language), 
you can generate HTML documentation  for the ABS grammar with:

~~~
txt2tags -t html DocABS.txt
~~~

or PDF documentation with:

~~~
txt2tags -t tex DocABS.txt
pdflatex DocABS.tex
~~~

